Now, we're gonna set up all this stuff we
need to actually create some to dues and
pull our to dues into our app and
stuff like that.
In order to do that we
need some type of storage,
we can use a JSON file but it's so free
and easy to set up a database these days.
So I figured we just set up a database and
just get started with that, so
let's just do that.
My favorite way of doing that is
using something called Prisma.
If you've never heard of Prisma, it's
basically just an ORM, a type-checked ORM.
If you don't know what an ORM is,
it's an SDK for a database.
That's literally it.
It's an SDK for a database, Prisma,
there's an SDK for many databases.
So you can pick whatever
database it supports and
you still get the same code experience
no matter what database you support.
So you don't have to like,
I need to know SQL for SQL or Postgres.
And whatever Mongo's query languages for
Mongo or this thing for this.
Nope, you just use Prisma and
it works for every database.
So it doesn't matter, it's pretty sick.
So we're just gonna get started with that,
best way to get started with prisma
is just to npm install prisma.
We're gonna save that as a developer,
a dev dependency, so save dev.
And then another one is npm install
@prisma/client at latest.
That's not a dev dependency,
so you can hit Enter on that.
So just those two, prisma and
then @prisma/client latest.
Once you get those two installed, and
then we just need to set up our database.
We'll just use SQLite, which is basically
like SQL that's based off a file.
So that way we're not like trying to go
host a database somewhere and like and
do all that, so.
Once we have those two things installed,
so
Prisma and then Prisma client latest.
We can just do something
called mpx prisma innit,
which is short for
initialized and we can run that.
And it's just gonna tell us a bunch of
stuff that we don't need to care about
right now, but I'm just gonna
walk you through what it did.
Basically, what we got here
now is on the root of our app,
we should see a Prisma folder, and
it's something called a schema.prisma.
All right, everybody see that?
Actually, I'm gonna start that or I'm
gonna delete it because I just realized I
could add another flag to it, and
it'll generate some more stuff for me.
So I wanna do prisma init,
but then I want to
say data source provider,
SQLite, like that.
If you do that, it'll create like
some other files for us as well,
that's really cool.
So I'll leave that up for
a little bit mpx prisma.net-data
source data provider,
SQLite, I'll run that.
And then what that's gonna do same thing.
I guess it didn't do the thing
that I thought I was gonna do.
I guess you don't have to do that.
All I did was change this to SQLite or
whatever, that's cool, I'm cool with that.
So this is a schema file, if you've
never written a database schema before,
this is what you'll probably do a lot.
You'll have to go into some schema
file and write a schema, but
Prisma's really chill.
It's based off of GraphQL and JavaScript,
so if you've familiar with GraphQL, or
if you just know JavaScript,
which I think everyone here does,
writing a schema's actually
really quite easy.
So we're just gonna write a schema for
our todos.
So I'm just gonna make a new
model using the model keyword.
I'm gonna say, todo, like that.
And I'm gonna give it an id,
let's say its id is type string.
I'm gonna use this app sign to say this
field is is annotated as the ID field.
I'm saying this field is the ID field.
And then I'm just gonna say
I need to give it a default.
And because it's a string,
I can use this built in UUID function.
If you don't know what UUID is, it just
stands for universally unique identifier.
I don't know how to explain it other than
it spits out guaranteed unique strings.
That's the best way I can
describe UUID is if you use it,
you get some unique strings, right?
Here we go, I'm gonna get another one,
there we go, so here's a UUID.
And every time I do it,
I get a new one, right?
So the database will just do that for
me automatically.
[COUGH] It's like different
versions of UUID as well.
So that's all I'm saying,
it's like make that a UUID.
And then I don't know, to do might have
some content whose type is string.
It might have a created at,
whose type is thick?
There's like a I'm sorry, type, Date Time.
And then there's like
a special that's where's that?
Yeah, daytime within like default So,
like, now, something like that.
I could do another one that says,
like, completed.
It's a Boolean, and its default is, false.
All right, pretty simple,
we're not gonna do crazy as this.
In the full stack course, we're gonna have
like, it's gonna be a crazy schema, but
in this is pretty much it.
It doesn't really matter what
database you pick, right?
You can pick SQLite,
you can pick Postgres.
All this is going to be the same,
for the most part.
There's like some different directives
that you might use, but everything to
the left of the directives is pretty much
the same no matter what database you pick,
it's pretty cool.
And if you already have a database
you can just add prisma to it.
It works, it works pretty good.
So we just need to migrate our database to
get it set up so we can start using it.
So we'll do a, npx prisma migrate,
not migrate, deploy, migrate,
let's do a help on this.
I think it's migrate.
Let me see, let's do a migrate help.
So I think we might want migrate dev,
I think, let's do that.
So migrate dev, you can give it a name.
You don't have to name it, but
I'm just gonna name it init.
And of course it breaks because, yeah, we
got to add a DATABASE URL to our env file.
Awesome, great,
segue into envs real quick.
So it should have an ENV file here on the
route that Prisma probably created for us.
If you don't know what an ENV file is, it
stands for an environment variable file.
This is a file in which you don't check
into Git, so I just wanna make sure I go
into my dot get ignore, make sure
that .ENV is listed in here anywhere.
It doesn't matter what line you put it on.
And this will tell GET to ignore it.
The reason you ignore this is this
is where you put your secret stuff.
If you check this into GitHub and it's
something useful, people will have it.
So we're gonna put our database
URL in here, which for
SQLite is where's where's my repo,
it's basically this.
It's a file, so
it's just like file:/dev.db.
So we have that,
now we can run our migration.
And then boom,
it created a migration for us.
We're ready to go,
created a database file for
us right here, something called a journal.
And we are ready to go on that.
So now we're ready to actually use this
data inside of our components that we can
actually do crud on the actual database
and try to create some to do's and
list some to do's and things like that.
So cool, any questions on that?
That was a lot really quick, I know.
I have all the code on the GitHub repo,
so if you feel like I need to catch up,
it's all here, the link's in the initial
page of the notes, right here, remember?
So here you go, so check that out
if you need to catch up, question?
>> It's maybe more of
a personal opinion question.
I've worked with Prisma before but
if we're just like, active record, right?
>> Yeah.
>> In your back, your experiences
Prisma pretty easy to drop
down into a raw SQL when needed for like,
those walkie migrations or that one lookup
>> Yeah, so
it also depends on the database you
used to lifers if you saw that, like,
planet scale,
which handles migrations for you.
Then you could, but you don't, playing
scale doesn't want you to, but prisma does
have the ability for you to drop down and
get pretty custom with raw queries.
I think it actually has a .raw method
where you can just do whatever you want.
So I don't think it,
it doesn't hide it from you, but
it tries to do most of the stuff for you.
Anytime you use a CLI, like in this case,
prisma or something like that,
you can just put npx in front of it so
you don't have to install it.
So that's how you know whether or
not you need to use npx or npm.
You're probably using
npm to install things or
run a script in a package
JSON that you have here.
You're probably using npx to run a CLI or
some other command.
So npx prisma init, and then that
created our data source, our SQLite,
all this stuff here, and
then we just did a migration.
Yeah, we just did a migration here
to sync our state with the database,
with the SQLite database.
You think of migration as
like syncing the database,
that's literally what a migration is.
We've made some changes to our schema, and
we need to sync those changes back
to the database, that's a migration.
Some people's job is
just to write migrations.
In fact, if something was
going to go wrong in your app,
it's probably during a migration.